=head1 NAME

DNSdelve.CheckNameservers - a module for dnsdelve

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<dnsdelve> [options] -m  CheckNameservers I<zone_file> [module_options]


=head1 DESCRIPTION

dnsdelve gathers information from the DNS. 
It loads a list of delegated zones (from file I<zone_file>,
which must be in RFC 1035 format) and queries them for various
records.

DNSdelve.CheckNameservers module checks if each domain name of the I<zone_file> has been properly delegated on each DNS server 
of their parent zone. 

=head1 OPTIONS

DNSdelve.CheckNameservers has the following options. They all have a short form (one
letter) and a longer form (prefixed by two dashes).

Remember that dnsdelve itself has options, too (see dnsdelve documentation).

=over 4

=item -p --parent_zone I<domain_name>

Specifies the parent zone of the domain names given in the zone file. Mandatory.

=item --soa I<n>

Specifies the zone file serial number against which the check will be performed.
If one of the DNS server of the parent zone has a serial number greater than I<n>, the tests against this server will be ignored. Optionnal.

=item -e --must_NOT_exist

If this option is present, the module will check if each domain name of the I<zone_file> is NOT delegated  on each DNS server
of the parent zone. 

=item -h --help

Prints a usage message.

=item -d --debug I<n>

Increases debug level. Default is zero, meaning no output. If debug level is 1, the module prints general information. If debug level is 2, the module gives per namserver information.

=back


=head1 FUNCTIONS 

DNSdelve.CheckNameservers module provides the following methods (which must be called in this order) :

=over 4

=item config

This function parses the module option list.
Usage : module.config(args) 

=item start

this function only prints a start message.

=item final 

this function only prints a final message.

=back 


=head1 OBJECTS

DNSdelve.CheckNameservers module provides two object classes :  a Plugin class and a CheckResult class. 

=over 4  

=item B<Plugin> 

This class inherits from the BasePlugin.Plugin class. It provides a method B<query> which will query each name server of the parent zone given in the argument line and 
check if the domains listed in the zone file are properly delegated on these name servers.

Usage :
Plugin.query(domain_name, parent_zone_name_servers)

=item B<CheckResult>

This class inherits from the BaseResult.Result class. It provides a method B<store> which will only print the result of the Plugin query method.

Usage :
CheckResult.store()

=back 




=head1 AUTHOR

Stephane Bortzmeyer <bortzmeyer@nic.fr>

=head1 SEE ALSO

http://www.dnsdelve.net/


