=head1 NAME

dnsdelve - a program to query the delegated DNS zones of a domain (typically a TLD)

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<dnsdelve> [options] -m I<module_name> I<zone_file> [module_options]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

dnsdelve gathers information from the DNS zones delegated by a
registry. It loads a list of delegated zones (from file I<zone_file>,
which must be in RFC 1035 format) and queries them for various
records.

It requires a module (specfied as I<module_name>) to perform the
per-zone processing.

=head1 OPTIONS

The following options are recognized. They all have a short form (one
letter) and a longer form (prefixed by two dashes).

Remember that the module has options, too (not documented here).

=over 4

=item -m --module I<name>

Loads the specified module. Mandatory, no default.

=item -d --debug I<n>

Increases the verbosity level. Default is 0, meaning no output (except
errors). Level 1 gives general (independant of the number of threads)
information such as the number of domains to be processed and the
progress (depending on the -r option). Level 2 gives per-thread
messages so, with many threads (the -n option), it starts to become
unreadable. Level 3 gives per-query messages so, for large zone files,
it overwhelms you with messages.

=item -n --num_threads I<n>

Specifies the number of threads. 

=item -l --plain_file 

Indicates that the "zone file" is actually a plain text file, with one
domain per line (default is to assume it is a RFC 1035 zone file).

=item -r --report_every I<n>

Too broken today. TODO

=item -p --percentage I<x>

Percentage of the domains in the zone file to query. The default is 1,
meaning 100 %. Any float number > 0 and < 1 is accepted.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Stephane Bortzmeyer <bortzmeyer@nic.fr>

=head1 SEE ALSO

http://www.dnsdelve.net/


